>> Scott Moss: If you look at
the list of challenges here,
we have to look at the User
router as a reference.
And you can follow it all the way down.
Now when I say follow it down,
there's two nested routers there, so
follow it all the way down to the source.
And the source is basically
where you're responding to.
Which if you would have found out,
there's literally no response there.
But look at that,
build out the song router with all
the routes very much like the User router.
Build out the playlist router, with all
Connect the song and
the playlist router to the rest router.
And then eventually collect the restRouter
to the base express app on the /api path,
right?
So let's check that out,
see what we've got here.
I'm just going to check out, to save
some time, because I love live coding,
but let's get through this.
Some solutions here, and then I can
live code some stuff that's not here.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
Nice, so first things first.
Let me get rid of this stuff
that we just did last session.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
first things first is we need to
connect our restRouter to our app.
And that one's pretty simple,
after I use, we mount it, this is what,
when you hear people say mounting,
this is what they're talking about.
We're mounting this
route at this path here.
And we're doing that before our
catch all that I have here.
By the way, I have this catch all here,
this by no means is me saying you
should have this in your app, okay?
If you don't have a route,
you should definitely throw an error,
a 404 or something.
I'm just having this so
it's for development.
But yeah, and if you're building an
express app that's serving a single page
application, you'll most likely
just send back the index page.
So this is like another thing
you would have to do as well.
But you shouldn't be serving on a static,
you shouldn't be doing a front
end app on the Express.
You should just serve it on
the CDN instead, but anyway.
So yeah, we mounted it at /api,
got the restRouter.
Let's go take a look at
the restRouter here.
Any questions here by the way,
about this part so far?
Okay, the restRouter,
if we go take a look at the restRouter,
all the stuff that you
need is already imported.
And what you saw was you had
just the user mounted at /user.
So we're just gonna go ahead and
mount the songRouter and
the playlistRouter on
the appropriate paths as well.
So we got /song /playlist,
and the important thing to
remember here is, one order.
So I guess in this case,
order doesn't really matter, cuz they're
completely different paths, right?
So it doesn't really matter, right?
They would matter if
they were the same path.
The other thing is that the usage of use,
if we didn't use use here,
we have to say something like this.
We'd have to say like,
let's say I want to mount some
stuff on the restRouter for song.
I'd say restRouter.get('/song'.
Or just '/song', then I'd have to be like,
/song/router, it would be
very tedious to do all that.
So use the .u so it's just like,
hey, anything for
/song just delegate to this router.
I don't care, I'm just passing it through.
I don't really care, it's not my job,
I'm just passing it through right, so
that's that.
You can do the same
thing to playlistRouter.
So let's go take a look at the userRouter.
And notice the typo here, we definitely
don't want a createOne on delete,
you should want a deleteOne.
>> Scott Moss: But notice,
I walked through this before the example,
but the param, when we're talking
about middleware, which is,
I think that's the one we're talking about
actually, this is gonna make more sense.
But this is popping off
the parameter of the url, right?
So if we created a URL or
route that's like /api/song/:id,
that's how you do parameters.
Then it's going to grab that id and
it's going to pass it as
an argument to this function.
And then that function
will do whatever it wants.
The function, normally what it will do is
look in the database for that id resource,
attach it to the request, and
send it down the line, right?
Because if you're coming in if
you're looking for a /api/song/:id,
and let's say this is a get,
let's say you did a get to this.
Say you did a get there, this is not
the thing that's going to respond.
The thing that's going to respond is
the route that you set up for this URL,
which is song/:id, which in this case
will be something like down here.
But this one runs first, so this one
would run first, grab the resource from
the database with the appropriate id,
attach it to the request.
Send it down the line to the one
that actually matches this,
which will be down here.
And then that would have access to the
object that was attached to the request,
and then it can respond appropriately.
Right, and that's how that will work.
And you can do that as much as you like,
middleware is as much as you like, but
just don't abuse it.
So we got this in a userRouter, so
if we go look at the songRouter,
we should see it's pretty much
be the same thing, right?
We use the .route thing again for
shortcuts,
otherwise we'd have to use the route
over and over and over again.
This is just shortcuts.
The reason this stuff is mounted like
this is because I'm following REST right?
So basically,
I mean who here knows what REST is?
>> Scott Moss: I don't think anybody knows
what REST is cuz it's not a thing right,
it's like, yeah, it's a thing,
but is it really a thing?
There's like conventions just like,
REST should be like, but
there's really no convention.
They have like standard API and their
swagger and all there's all this stuff but
like, really what is REST?
Everybody, at the end of the day,
has to denormalized their
REST to do something crazy.
You gotta attach these query strings,
you gotta do these crazy stuff because
eventually what you have to do.
What you find out is that you build
an app, whether it's a mobile app or
a web app, and you find out is that that
app needs data completely different in
the way REST is designed.
It doesn't need it like this,
it needs associations,
it needs nested structures and
REST doesn't satisfy that.
So what you end up having to do,
you optimize for
the client especially if it's a web app.
You want the client to be optimized.
So therefore, you don't want the client
making multiple calls to get associations.
So you fix the back end, and
now you don't do REST anymore.
Now it's just like, well, now we made this
one special route just for this page.
And it's like okay [LAUGH] what is this,
right?
So I mean really, what is REST?
But I guess the way you
could think of it is,
it's just a structured way
that we can define our routes
that can interact with our resources
taking advantage of HTTP verbs.
So if you use the verb get,
that means you want to get a resource.
If you use the verb put,
that means you want to update a resource.
If you use the verb post,
you want to create a resource.
If you use the verb delete,
you want to remove a resource.
And then options verb is for cores.
And then as far as the resource
string is concerned,
that's just gonna be slash,
wherever your API is, right?
You got some business logic here, and
you might see something like this.
Typical, you'll see something like api/v1,
nobody has a v2.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] Nobody has a v2,
it's always v1.
They're over optimistic about
that new API they never build.
It's always v1, and
then the resource name.
They'll be like, the name of the thing.
So in this case, we might have user.
And then typically what you do here
is you would do get and put to this.
So if I did a get request to this URL,
that means I wanna get all the users,
cuz I didn't specify an id.
If I did a post request to this URL,
that means I wanna create a user, right?
But now, if I put an id here,
and I did a get request to this?
It means, I wanna get the user with
this id, right, so not all users.
You couldn't do a post here, because you
could not create a user with this given
id, so that wouldn't make sense.
But you could put a put here, right?
So a put, what it means,
I wanna update the user with this id.
And you can also put a delete here,
as in I'm gonna delete this
user with this id, right?
So that's basically REST,
or what REST should be.
It's supposed to be stateless,
it's supposed to be all this.
But at the end of the day,
nobody really knows what it is, and
nobody wanted to admit it.
Really that was it, I mean Rails came out,
Rails was like, here, we're doing REST,
everything's RESTful resource and
it's great, you can do CRUD.
That's great for a todo app that
literally only does that, but
what about a component that like
does all types of crazy stuff?
Like this is just not gonna work.
But we'll learn about how
to fix that tomorrow.
Cool, so this is what you have to do for
the songRouter.
And then the playlistRouter
is very much the same thing.
As you can see,
this is like a benefit of REST I believe,
because you're pretty much doing this,
it doesn't matter the resource,
they all need the same endpoints, right?
I mean, for user, you probably don't
wanna be exposed in creating a user,
you wanna go through authentication for
that.
But for other resources,
yeah, it's the same thing.
You get one, you can delete one,
you can create one, stuff like that.
So that way you can see that
a lot of this stuff is redundant.
We could have abstracted this to a whole
other level, and just passed in a router
and registered the routes for
it that way with just one function.
Which is what we're doing with some
of the other files we'll get to soon.
>> Scott Moss: You have a question?
>> Speaker 2: Mario's asking, so
in the case with the callback
in the param function
does the job the song is going to be
available in the routes that match later?
>> Scott Moss: Exactly, yep, so the param
is gonna attach it to the request.
And that same request object is
passed down to the next handler.
So yeah, if you mutate the request object,
it's passed down the whole request.
You can think of it as
a per-request cache, basically.
It's only there per request.
You don't have to be afraid of having
two different request's data on the same
request object,
which would be very dangerous, all right?
It's only per request.
So yeah, mutate the request object,
pass it down.
It's available onto whatever handler
comes after it, until you respond.
>> Speaker 2: You just have the createOne
again for deleting on the other two?
I don't know if that matters.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, yeah,
they're all type, hold on.
>> Speaker 2: It does, but I don't know
if it matters for the sake of the course.
>> Scott Moss: It definitely matters.
I'm sure my test will fail.
Cool, well let's dive into the next thing,
which is going to be Controllers and
Responding.
I thought middleware was next.
Okay, so we're going to Controllers and
Responding.
So if you've got all the way
through this example, actually,
let me write it just to show you.
Cuz I'm sure people were freaking out and
people online probably didn't hear me when
I finally revealed that this
is what should be happening.
But if you run this, you got
everything working, it doesn't break,
everything's good.
Right, you go try to test out your thing.
Let's go test it out, let's see.
We can do this nice trick right here,
that's awesome.
And then you can do /api, and
then you wanna get all the songs, and
you hit enter.
And nothing happens, it just hangs.
That's not a bug or anything,
nothing's coming back.
I should expect something back.
Eventually, this is gonna error out,
it's gonna time out.
That's intentional, did anybody do
some digging and figure out why?
Yeah, why?
>> Speaker 3: Cuz all the methods
are empty in the query.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Query.js.
>> Scott Moss: All those methods
in query.js are empty, and
those methods that you're talking
about are called controllers.
All the controllers are empty,
there's nothing in here.
Now I'm doing some pretty
crazy stuff in here, kind of.
But it's not too advanced and
I wanted to do this because I wanted
to show how you can generate things
based off like shared logic.
Because it is REST and
because we do have this path and
everything's gonna follow
the same convention,
every single resource is gonna have
a create, read, and update, and delete.
It's gonna have CRUD on it.
We can just do the exact
same controllers for
now by default on every single
resource until we don't, right?
There's gonna be times where
we have to do associations and
we need a different controller.
But by default, yeah,
they all do the same thing.
Creating a song is the same
thing as creating a playlist,
they just take different parameters.
But the logic is exactly the same.
So that's why this follows here,
this allows us to take any model when
we get to models and
then do that thing on that model.
So that's what we're gonna do next.